#Debate
##October 27, 2014

First day of the project!  Today is both the most awesome day and the most worrying as I don't know what will be completed by weeks end, but I'm super pumped for it!  So first off I should say, I write a lot like I talk, so you may see a lot of improper grammer.  I apologize, but that's just the way it is. 

Now the game we are constructing is a little tabletop kind of game that can be found in Romance of the Three Kingdoms 10, which is the best RotK there is.  Now this game takes place in the form of the debate, and the characters yell things at each other while the debate goes on, which is some of the most terribly bad translations to an english argument you will ever see.  Anyways, this board as combos which include getting a solid color row, which will damage your opponent, which heals you.  If you get three different colors, it will do damage to yourself.  Thats the basic game, and then it gets more complicated with different abilities that can be used.  

I won't really go into details of the abilities, but I will make a post of what they do shortly, but what you need to know is that they each do something to affect the flow of the game.  Nothing extreme, but enough to make you re-adjust strategies.  I apologize as I'm not going to go into full details of how the game works, you can just google it find it it anyways, but this game will be out at the end of the week for everyone to try, so you can learn it then!

 So today I made the basic flow of the game boot sequence and asset loading while Denny constructed our build process for our server.  After this I focused on getting a card selection screen ready, which amounted to a couple of text areas as well as some simple images of little red square that complete all the logic these 'cards' need to have, but have no real information displayed with them.  These items will be bought with using your budget.  This part is different from RotK 10, as there you can have all abilities.  This is a specific part Denny and I felt was unbalanced, because by allowing everyone to grab everything, ability cards become by far the most powerful thing, and competing on the board becomes a secondary thought.  This itself happened in RotK 10, where wonce you got all the skills, you made all opponents go crying to their mamas before you had to even play just a regular command.  We are hoping to balance this somewhat!

 So bit of a long post, but I will get some screen shots of progress for the next post!

 ##October 28th, 2014

 Now this proabably looks weird as these were psoted on the same day. I didn't acutally get around to setting up a blog yet when writing these, so they actually just sit in an MD file in the projects github while I go.  Once a blog has been set up, which at the time of writing this it has not, these blogs will be simplier, as well as more detailed, when I write them.  So anyhow, what was done today.  Well today was a lot of refactoring, as well as almost finishing the card slection screen.  This might make it sound like I'm going slow, but actually a lot of the physical card logic is now going to be ready for the game.  

 Denny is actually coding the logic for the board part of the game, so I'll let him talk about that.  For me, The cards now display porperly on the screen, but I'm going to rework a lot of the assets I have running in the menu, as well as the background color I use throughout the game, as its all actually assets I'm using from when I was reading the Discover Phaser Book by Thomas Palef, and I used them to quickly get up some of the stuff that didn't seem as important to me to begin with.

Other then that I have been refactoring a lot, trying to make the code more readable.  Remember anyone can check out this game at my github!  I had very little time today I could work on the project, I'm hoping to get more in the next couple days to really get going on this!  Other then that though, the plan tomorrow is to finish up the last of the assets needed for the Card Selection page, such as a next button, a quantity counter for the amount of a given card you chose, as well as perhaps help text of some sort.  

I have been thinking more and more that I will need a tutorial of some sort, so we'll see what kind of time I have before weeks end.  I've only been able to work on this so far for a grand total of like 5 hours, so if I could get a good solid day of work on this coming up, that would be awesome!  Well check back for another blog post later!

##October 29th, 2014
Alright so, a lot done today.  First I added counters to each ability in the card selection screen, and have them increment when being bought, as well as updated most buttons throughout the whole game.  I created some text to blink on the main screen, and set cards to max out at 100 points and not allow you to buy any extra cards.  Once your deck is at 30 cards, the game will allow you to continue.  

After this I jumped into the play state and got some serious buisness done.  While denny has all logic on the board on his hands, the logic with the cards is overseen by me.  so first I added the ability to play number cards, and have their effects actually pipe into the board, which went really easy with Denny's API.  I then split it so you were drawn seven cards, and upon playing a card, that card is used, and then removed from your hand, as well as the view.  There should be cards being drawn, but it actually won't technically happen here as both players actually draw at the same time after they both play a card.  

I also have the user randomly drawing cards at the very start of the game.  I am debating sorting the cards for the user, or having them have the ability to sort it themselves, but thats nothing that is at the top of my TODO list right now.  Next I created a second Deck, hand, and views for a second player.  Denny was nice enough to create the player class and objects for me, all I had to do was create some outward facing attributes.  

Now whenever a player plays a card it actually switches to the other players hand for them to play a card.  It should be said the initial version will play like this, except that there will be a timer to have the other player take over.  I really wish I had tim to write AI, but I fear it would be to simple due to time constraints for almost every user over the age of 2.  So for now, I will probably have to leave it at this.  Weekends coming up though so who knows!  

By tomorrow evening this will definitly be in a playable state, but I really need to attach funtionality for ability cards.  The next thing up on my todo is actually to transfer the cards to actual classes rather then Javascript objects because it is stupidly unorganized in the code right now, and Dennys gunna beat the hell outta me if I dont do it soon, as well as a lot of the draw options and such being baked into the player object.  After that play testing!

##October 30th, 2014
Today was a long day of refactoring.  first and foremost, I did not get a playable test of the game up today.  Instead, I changed all of the code to be OO so that the play state was not a swamp of horrors for me and denny to have to go through.  

I changed the cards or as I call them now, the commands, start in the command object, and from there are inherited as needed.  A regular command simply inherits the command prototype, but if the card is something like say the taunt card, that card inherits from the attack command which inherits from the ability command, which inherits from the command command.  A simple visual represtation of this is TauntCommand>AttacCommand>AbilityCommand>Command.  I did this for extendability to the cards so that creating and changing the cards was not done inside a state, instead the cards are predefined in their own classes outside the state, and the state simply passes the owner to the cards.

This cleaned up a couple methods, but there is still work to be done to finish the clean up process.  First and foremost, I NEED to move functionality into the Player class.   Things such as draw card, drawing you hand at the start of the game, as well as just the players deck in general, should be stored inside the Player class.  This would clean play up so that all it did was essentially be a drive that calls the correct commands at the correct time, and really just hold both players commands whenever they play a command.  Denny did some awesome work with the game logic, but he'll surely type about that himself in his log, but he hasnt been able to test it becasue he needs the new objects I just created.  So tomorrow will be about putting the correct flow in playing cards into the play class so that it essentially connects my new objects and function to dennys new flow of game logic.  

Abilitites have still not been written, but the logic is there for the functionality, they simply just have to be written, which sounds harder then it is.  The hope is to have a playable demo up by tomorrow, so that is what I will be working on then.  I also have to despretely document a lot of my stuff (not the new ovjects, they have been documented), but I will do that after the refactor, since I'm going to be killing a lot of zombie funtions.  Its getting there though!